# Changelog

All notable changes to the schema will be noted in this file. The format is
based off [Keep a Changelog](http://keepachangelog.com/en/1.0.0/).

This project adheres to [Semantic Versioning](http://semver.org/spec/v2.0.0.html).

## Unreleased
### Added
- Added LncBook and LncRNAWiki as data providers
- Added LncBook example
- Added CRS as a data provider
- Added CRS example
- Added an ECO term for the SO term annotation. This will help track the
  evidence for a sequence being an example of the given SO term.
- Add an inferredPhylogeny section. This is allow databases, like SILVA, that
  create their own phylogeny to provide it to RNAcentral.
- Added tmRNA Website example
- Added 5SRRNAdb as a data provider
- Added 5SRRNAdb example

### Changed
- Require that all locations have at least one exon.
- Updated modomics example to reflect modifications locations.
- Renamed CRS -> CRW

### Removed
- Removed duplication modifications section from the top-level ncRNA entry.

## [0.4.0] - 2018-09-24
### Changed
- Altered the validation script to display all errors.
- Improved descriptions of sequence id fields to be clearer.
- Changed doi reference pattern to start with `DOI:` to be consistent with PMID
  pattern.
- Bug fix to re-enable secondary structure validation.
- Bug fix validator to correctly get validator failure name.
- Rename matureProduct to mature\_product
- Require all publications have at least one reference, either directly in
  `publications` or indirectly in `metaData.publications`.
- Require `chromosome` in genomic locations.
- Let database names be case insensitive in global ids.

### Added
- We now validate if the taxon ids are active or obsolete.
- Added new type of related sequence, `target_rna` to represent the binding target
  of miRNA's and other ncRNA sequences.
- Add new type of related sequence, `target_protein` to represent RNA's that
  interact with proteins.
- Add an example for TarBase import
- Add an evidence section to relatedSequences, to store information about the
  evidence for the relationship between sequences.
- Validate PubMed Ids as being active.
- Added ZWC as a new database.
- Added `genomicCoordinateSystem` as a way of specifying how the coordinates in
  the JSON file are specified. This has been a point of confusion, so hopefully
  to allowing databases to specify this and supporting the two most common
  systems we can resolve the issues.

### Removed
- Removed the `INSC_accession` field. It isn't used and is unneeded in our
  current system.
- Removed the `ucsc_accession` for genomicLocations. This is unused and
  unneeded.

## [0.3.0] - 2018-05-22
### Changed
- Changed the meaning of `assembly` field to both be clearer as it's intended
  purpose as well as allow for more general utility.
- Made `INSC_accession` optional. This isn't always easy available and we can
  probably get by without it.
- Made the validation of the database name case insensitive.
- Do not required `geneId` in the `gene` object.
- Altered sequence constraint to allow for up to 10% of the nucleotides to be
  uncertain. This reflects the internal constraints on RNAcentral data.

### Added
- Added new databases for cross referencing:
  - ENTREZGENE
  - MICRORNA.ORG
  - MIRDB
  - TARGETMINER
  - TARGETSCANFISH
  - TARGETSCANFLY
  - TARGETSCANVERT
  - TARGETSCANWORM
- Added `coordinates` field to relatedSequences. This is used to represent the
  relative coordinates of a related sequence.

## [0.2.0] - 2018-02-07
### Added
- Added a `description` field to the schema
  (<https://github.com/RNAcentral/rnacentral-data-schema/issues/2>)
- Automatically test all example files
- Add examples for mirBase, LNCipedia and a minimal example
- Added a `locusTag`, `name`, and `url` fields to gene
- Added validation to check if a name for the transcript can be determined
- Add `symbol` and `symbolSynonyms` to `sections/ncrna.json`
- Add a section, `relatedSequences`, for generic related sequences
- Add `matureProduct` as a type of related sequence
- Add validation to check coordinate orientation

### Changed
- Allow colons in ids.
- Limit publication references to DOI's and PubMed Ids
- Made `geneId` required for genes
- Rename `sections/entry.json` to `sections/ncrna.json`
- `name` is no longer required for ncRNA's
- `version` is no longer required for ncRNA's

### Removed
- Remove section `precursorSequenceId` in favor of the `relatedSequences`
  section
